# CS360WeightTrackingApp

When developing the app, it was important to understand the audience that this was being developed for. Rather than targeting only users that are trying to lose weight like most weight tracking apps do, it was built to support those trying to gain weight and lose weight. These other applications also have a very busy UI. This could make it overwhelming for the user. The journey towards reaching your goal weight is already challenging enough and now you have to deal with an overwhelming UI? No thanks. I attempted to keep the UI minimalistic and very straight forward. 

In order to properly record the user's inputted data into a database, a user account is required. This necessitated a screen for creating an account, and a screen for logging into the account. Once the user has logged in to their account they are brought to the main menu. The main menu allows the user to navigate to the weight entry screen, the set new goal screen, and the weight history screen. Although there's a few different screens here, the goal weight is still displayed on the main menu so that the user can easily see what they are aiming for.

During the process of coding the app, I found myself getting stuck often when it came to including Android specific coding. This is my first time coding for Android, and I realized that I still have a lot to learn. Although, since the app was developed in Java (a language I've become pretty familiar with in school), the non-familiarity with Android wasn't too big of an issue in the long-run. Android has a massive userbase and therefore it is very well documented. Any questions that I had were easily answered by tutorials and official documentation on the website. Going forward, I'm very excited to keep developing for Android. I can easily see myself continuing development on this app.

To ensure that the code remained functional throughout development, I tested the application very often. Any time that I added something new or made changes to an existing feature, I would run the application and thoroughly test all of the features. Even if I only made changes to one feature, it could affect other parts of the code that relied on it. I also tested the application on multiple devices before release. The app was tested on an older pixel phone (Pixel 3a), along with some more modern pixel phones (Pixel 6 and 7). 

This is my first time creating an app that had a front-end and a back-end. During these past couple years in school, a majority of my time has been spent JUST coding. It was incredibly refreshing to do the UI for the app as well. Since I am so inexperienced with UI design, I went for a very simple but effective UI. This also cut down the time needed to draft up the mock UI design. If I were to spend more time locking in a consistent aestethic for the app, I feel that it would significantly improve the UX. I might find myself continuing work on this app and if so, I will make major changes to the UI.

The work that I am most proud of with this project is the seamless integration of databases. It was a lot of fun going back and forth between UI and code, but it was incredibly satisfying to work with databases again. Converting Android's date picker widget into data that could be logged into a database, pulled and displayed later was really great. 
